#Algorithmic Puzzles
###Math circles Feb 25 

### 1. A Fake among nine coins 
a) There are nine identical-looking coins; one of these coins is counterfeit and is known to be lighter than the genuine coins. What is the minimum number of weighings needed to identify the fake coin with a two-pan balance scale without weights?

b) Can you try to generalize this to the case where the number of coins is 27, 81, ... any power of three? How fast do the number of weighings grow with the number of coins? 


### 2. Tromino tiling
Cover a 8 x 8 board missing one square with right trominoes, which
are L-shaped tiles formed by three adjacent squares. The missing square can be any
of the board squares. Trominoes should cover all the squares except the missing one
exactly with no overlaps.

b) Can you try to generalize this to the case when the size of the board is 16 x 16, 32 x 32, and so on?  

### 3. Sita and Rama play Chickpeas
a) Imagine Sita, Rama, and two piles of ten chickpeas. Sita and Rama are bored one
Saturday afternoon so they play the following game. In each turn a player
may either take one chickpea from a single pile, or one chickpea from both piles. Once
the chickpeas are taken, they are removed from play; the player that takes the last
chickpea wins the game. Sita moves first.

### 4. Breaking eggs 
You are given two eggs, and access to a 100-storey building. Both eggs are identical. The aim is to find out the highest floor from which an egg will not break when dropped out of a window from that floor. If an egg is dropped and does not break, it is undamaged and can be dropped again. However, once an egg is broken, that’s it for that egg. If an egg breaks when dropped from floor n, then it would also have broken from any floor above that. If an egg survives a fall, then it will survive any fall shorter than that.

What strategy should you adopt to minimize the number egg drops it takes to find the solution?. (And what is the worst case for the number of drops it will take?)

Hint a: What if you only had one egg? 
Hint b: What if your grandfather owned a grocery store chain and gave you more than 100 eggs? 
